# Cardiovascular-heart-diseases

Heart disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality globally: it accounts for more deaths annually than any other cause. According to the WHO, an estimated 17.9 million people died from heart disease in 2016, representing 31% of all global deaths. Over three quarters of these deaths took place in low- and middle-income countries. Of all heart diseases, coronary heart disease (heart attack) is by far the most common and the most fatal. Therefore, its risk assessment is crucial to many existing treatment guidelines. Risk estimates are also being used to predict the magnitude of future cardiovascular disease mortality and morbidity at the population level and in specific subgroups to inform policymakers and health authorities about these risks. Additionally, risk prediction inspires individuals to change their lifestyle and behaviour and to adhere to medications.
Data provided by the town of Framingham, Massachusetts for studying cardiovascular diseases. The classification goal is to predict whether the patient has a 10 year risk of future coronary heart disease (CHD). The dataset provides the patients’ information. It includes over 3390 records and 15 attributes. This data include information related to sex, Age, is person is smoker or not and if it will take any medication and much more. The data was sampled and cleaned for the purposes of this project using exploratory data analysis.

We applied different regression algorithms such as logistic regression, K-nearest neighbours, Decision tree, SVM classifier, random forest XGBoost to find out which one of them provides better accuracy and relationships between variables. 

